<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-negro-speaks-of-rivers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Negro Speaks of Rivers</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(To <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">W. E. B.</abbr> DuBois)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>I've known rivers:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I've known rivers ancient as the world and older than the flow of human blood in human veins.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My soul has grown deep like the rivers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I bathed in the Euphrates when dawns were young.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I built my hut near the Congo and it lulled me to sleep.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I looked upon the Nile and raised the pyramids above it.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I heard the singing of the Mississippi when Abe Lincoln went down to New Orleans, and I've seen its muddy bosom turn all golden in the sunset.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I've known rivers:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ancient, dusky rivers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My soul has grown deep like the rivers.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="aunt-sues-stories" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Aunt Sue’s Stories</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Aunt Sue has a head full of stories.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Aunt Sue has a whole heart full of stories.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Summer nights on the front porch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Aunt Sue cuddles a brown-faced child to her bosom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tells him stories.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Black slaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Working in the hot sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And black slaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Walking in the dewy night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And black slaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Singing sorrow songs on the banks of a mighty river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mingle themselves softly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the flow of old Aunt Sue's voice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mingle themselves softly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the dark shadows that cross and recross</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Aunt Sue's stories.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the dark-faced child, listening,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knows that Aunt Sue's stories are real stories.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He knows that Aunt Sue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Never got her stories out of any book at all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But that they came</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Right out of her own life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the dark-faced child is quiet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of a summer night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Listening to Aunt Sue's stories.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-negro" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Negro</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I am a Negro:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Black as the night is black,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Black like the depths of my Africa.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I've been a slave:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cæsar told me to keep his door-steps clean.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I brushed the boots of Washington.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I've been a worker:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Under my hand the pyramids arose.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I made mortar for the Woolworth Building.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I've been a singer:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All the way from Africa to Georgia I carried my sorrow songs.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I made ragtime.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I've been a victim:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Belgians cut off my hands in the Congo.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They lynch me now in Texas.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I am a Negro:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Black as the night is black,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Black like the depths of my Africa.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="question" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Question</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When the old junk man Death</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Comes to gather up our bodies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And toss them into the sack of oblivion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wonder if he will find</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The corpse of a white multi-millionaire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Worth more pennies of eternity,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than the black torso of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A Negro cotton-picker?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mexican-market-woman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mexican Market Woman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This ancient hag</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who sits upon the ground</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Selling her scanty wares</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Day in, day round,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has known high wind-swept mountains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the sun has made</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her skin so brown.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-new-moon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The New Moon</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There’s a new, young moon riding the hills tonight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s a sprightly, young moon exploring the clouds;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s a half-shy, young moon veiling her face like a virgin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Waiting for her lover.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-dead-friend" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Dead Friend</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The moon still sends its mellow light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the purple blackness of the night;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The morning star is palely bright</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Before the dawn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The sun still shines just as before;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rose still grows beside my door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">But you have gone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The sky is blue and the robin sings;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The butterflies dance on rainbow wings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Though I am sad.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In all the earth no joy can be;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Happiness comes no more to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">For you are dead.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="my-loves" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">My Loves</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I love to see the big white moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A-shining in the sky;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I love to see the little stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the shadow clouds go by.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I love the rain drops falling</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On my roof-top in the night;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I love the soft wind’s sighing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Before the dawn’s gray light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I love the deepness of the blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In my Lord’s heaven above;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But better than all these things I think,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I love my lady love.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-south" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The South</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The lazy, laughing South</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With blood on its mouth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sunny-faced South,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Beast-strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Idiot-brained.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The child-minded South</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scratching in the dead fire's ashes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a Negro's bones.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Cotton and the moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Warmth, earth, warmth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The sky, the sun, the stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The magnolia-scented South.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beautiful, like a woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seductive as a dark-eyed whore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Passionate, cruel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Honey-lipped, syphilitic—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That is the South.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I, who am black, would love her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she spits in my face.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I, who am black,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would give her many rare gifts</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she turns her back upon me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">So now I seek the North—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The cold-faced North,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">For she, they say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Is a kinder mistress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in her house my children</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May escape the spell of the South.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="laughers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Laughers</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Dream singers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Story tellers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dancers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loud laughers in the hands of Fate—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My people.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dish-washers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Elevator-boys,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ladies' maids,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crap-shooters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cooks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waiters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jazzers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nurses of babies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loaders of ships,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rounders,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Number writers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Comedians in vaudeville</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And band-men in circuses—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dream-singers all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My people.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Story-tellers all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My people.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dancers—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God! What dancers!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Singers—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God! What singers!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Singers and dancers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dancers and laughers.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Laughers?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes, laughers ... laughers ... laughers—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loud-mouthed laughers in the hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of Fate.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="danse-africaine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Danse Africaine</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The low beating of the tom-toms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The slow beating of the tom-toms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Low . . . slow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Slow . . . low—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stirs your blood.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Dance!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A night-veiled girl</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whirls softly into a</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Circle of light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whirls softly . . . slowly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a wisp of smoke around the fire—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the tom-toms beat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the tom-toms beat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the low beating of the tom-toms</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stirs your blood.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="after-many-springs" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">After Many Springs</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In June,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the night is a vast softness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Filled with blue stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And broken shafts of moon-glimmer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fall upon the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Am I too old to see the fairies dance?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I cannot find them any more.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="beggar-boy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Beggar Boy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>What is there within this beggar lad</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I can neither hear nor feel nor see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I can neither know nor understand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And still it calls to me?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Is not he but a shadow in the sun—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A bit of clay, brown, ugly, given life?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet he plays upon his flute a wild free tune</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As if Fate had not bled him with her knife!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="song-for-a-banjo-dance" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Song for a Banjo Dance</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Shake your brown feet, honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake your brown feet, chile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake your brown feet, honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake 'em swift and wil'—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Get way back, honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Do that low-down step.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Walk on over, darling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Now! Come out</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With your left.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake your brown feet, honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake 'em, honey chile.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sun's going down this evening—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Might never rise no mo'.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sun's going down this very night—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Might never rise no mo'—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So dance with swift feet, honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(The banjo's sobbing low)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dance with swift feet, honey—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Might never dance no mo'.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Shake your brown feet, Liza,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake 'em, Liza, chile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake your brown feet, Liza,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(The music's soft and wil')</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake your brown feet, Liza,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(The banjo's sobbing low)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sun's going down this very night—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Might never rise no mo'.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mother-to-son" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mother to Son</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Well, son, I’ll tell you:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life for me ain’t been no crystal stair.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s had tacks in it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And splinters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And boards torn up,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And places with no carpet on the floor—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bare;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But all the time</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’se been a-climbin’ on,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And reachin’ landin’s,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And turnin’ corners,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sometimes goin’ in the dark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where there ain’t been no light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So boy, don’t you turn back;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don’t you sit down on the steps,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Cause you finds it’s kinder hard;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don’t you fall now—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I’se still goin’, honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’se still climbin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And life for me ain’t been no crystal stair.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="when-sue-wears-red" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">When Sue Wears Red</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When Susanna Jones wears red</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her face is like an ancient cameo</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Turned brown by the ages.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come with a blast of trumpets,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Jesus!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When Susanna Jones wears red</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A queen from some time-dead Egyptian night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Walks once again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Blow trumpets, Jesus!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the beauty of Susanna Jones in red</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Burns in my heart a love-fire sharp like pain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sweet silver trumpets,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Jesus!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-black-pierrot" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Black Pierrot</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I am a black Pierrot:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">She did not love me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">So I crept away into the night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And the night was black, too.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I am a black Pierrot:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">She did not love me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">So I wept until the red dawn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Dripped blood over the eastern hills</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And my heart was bleeding, too.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I am a black Pierrot:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">She did not love me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">So with my once gay-colored soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Shrunken like a balloon without air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">I went forth in the morning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">To seek a new brown love.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="justice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Justice</h2>
			<p>
				<span>That Justice is a blind goddess</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is a thing to which we black are wise.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her bandage hides two festering sores</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That once, perhaps, were eyes.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="monotony" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Monotony</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Today like yesterday</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tomorrow like today;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The drip, drip, drip,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of monotony</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is wearing my life away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Today like yesterday,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tomorrow like today.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dreams" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dreams</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Hold fast to dreams, my son,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For if dreams die</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life is a broken-winged bird</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That cannot fly.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hold fast to dreams, O boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For when dreams go</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life is a barren field</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Frozen with snow.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poem-for-the-portrait-of-an-african-boy-after-the-manner-of-gauguin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Poem</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">For the Portrait of an African Boy After the Manner of Gauguin</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>All the tom-toms of the jungles beat in my blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the wild hot moons of the jungles shine in my soul.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am afraid of this civilization—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">So hard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">So strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">So cold.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="our-land" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Our Land</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">Poem for a Decorative Panel</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>We should have a land of sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of gorgeous sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a land of fragrant water</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the twilight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is a soft bandanna handkerchief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of rose and gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And not this land where life is cold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We should have a land of trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of tall thick trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bowed down with chattering parrots</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brilliant as the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And not this land where birds are grey.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah, we should have a land of joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of love and joy and wine and song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And not this land where joy is wrong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, sweet, away!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, my beloved one, away!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-last-feast-of-belshazzar" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Last Feast of Belshazzar</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The jeweled entrails of pomegranates bled on the marble floor.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The jewel-heart of a virgin broke at the golden door.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The laughter of a drunken lord hid the sob of a silken whore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span><i xml:lang="arc-Latn">Mene</i>,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wrote a strange hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span><i xml:lang="arc-Latn">Mene Tekel Upharsin</i>,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Death stood at the door.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="young-prostitute" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Young Prostitute</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Her dark brown face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is like a withered flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On a broken stem.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Those kind come cheap in Harlem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So they say.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="jazzonia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Jazzonia</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, silver tree!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, shining rivers of the soul!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In a Harlem cabaret</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Six long-headed jazzers play.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A dancing girl whose eyes are bold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lifts high a dress of silken gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, singing tree!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, shining rivers of the soul!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Were Eve's eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the first garden</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just a bit too bold?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was Cleopatra gorgeous</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a gown of gold?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, shining tree!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, silver rivers of the soul!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In a whirling cabaret</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Six long-headed jazzers play.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="shadows" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Shadows</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We cannot stand these shadows!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Give us the sun.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We were not made</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For shade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For heavy shade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And narrow space of stifling air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That these white things have made.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We run!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We must break through these shadows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We must find the sun.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="cabaret" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Cabaret</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Does a jazz-band ever sob?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They say a jazz-band's gay.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet as the vulgar dancers whirled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the wan night wore away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One said she heard the jazz-band sob</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the little dawn was grey.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="winter-moon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Winter Moon</h2>
			<p>
				<span>How thin and sharp is the moon tonight!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How thin and sharp and ghostly white</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is the slim curved crook of the moon tonight!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="young-singer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Young Singer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>One who sings "chansons vulgaires"</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a Harlem cellar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the jazz-band plays</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From dark to dawn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would not understand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Should you tell her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That she is like a nymph</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For some wild faun.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="prayer-meeting" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Prayer Meeting</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Glory! Halleluiah!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De dawn's a-comin'!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Glory! Halleluiah!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De dawn's a-comin'!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A black old woman croons</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the amen-corner of the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ebecanezer Baptist Church.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A black old woman croons,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De dawn's a-comin'!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poem-the-night-is-beautiful" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Poem</h2>
				<p hidden="hidden" epub:type="subtitle">The Night Is Beautiful</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>The night is beautiful,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So the faces of my people.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The stars are beautiful,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So the eyes of my people.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Beautiful, also, is the sun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beautiful, also, are the souls of my people.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-little-frightened-child" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Little Frightened Child</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A little southern colored child comes to a northern school and is afraid to play with the white children.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At first they are nice to him, but finally they taunt him and call him "nigger".</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The colored children hate him after a while, too.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He is a little dark boy with a round black face and a white embroidered collar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One might make a story out of this tiny frightened child.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="my-beloved" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">My Beloved</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Shall I make a record of your beauty?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall I write words about you?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall make a poem that will live a thousand years and paint you in the poem?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-white-ones" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The White Ones</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I do not hate you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For your faces are beautiful, too.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I do not hate you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your faces are whirling lights of loveliness and splendor, too.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet why do you torture me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, white strong ones,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why do you torture me?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="grant-park" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Grant Park</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The haunting face of poverty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hands of pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rough, gargantuan feet of fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The nails of conscience in a soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That didn't want to do wrong—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can see what they've done</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To brothers of mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In one back-yard of Fifth Avenue.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can see what they've done</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To brothers of mine—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sleepers on iron benches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Behind the Library in Grant Park.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gods" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Gods</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The ivory gods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the ebony gods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the gods of diamond and jade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sit silently on their temple shelves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the people</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are afraid.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet the ivory gods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the ebony gods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the gods of diamond-jade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are only silly puppet gods</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That the people themselves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have made.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fire-caught" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fire-Caught</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The gold moth did not love him</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So, gorgeous, she flew away.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the gray moth circled the flame</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Until the break of day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then, with wings like a dead desire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She fell, fire-caught, into the flame.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="song-for-a-suicide" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Song for a Suicide</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, the sea is deep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a knife is sharp</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a poison acid burns;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they all bring rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a deep, long sleep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For which the tired soul yearns—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They all bring rest in a nothingness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From where no road returns.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="prayer-for-a-winter-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Prayer for a Winter Night</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O, Great God of Cold and Winter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wrap the earth in an icy blanket</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And freeze the poor in their beds.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All those who haven't enough cover</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To keep them warm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor food enough to keep them strong—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Freeze, dear God.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let their limbs grow stiff</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And their hearts cease to beat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then tomorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They'll wake up in some rich kingdom of nowhere</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where nothingness is everything and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Everything is nothingness.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lament-for-dark-peoples" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lament for Dark Peoples</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I was a red man one time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the white men came.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I was a black man, too,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the white men came.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They drove me out of the forest.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They took me away from the jungles.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I lost my trees.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I lost my silver moons.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now they've caged me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the circus of civilization.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now I herd with the many—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Caged in the circus of civilization.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fascination" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fascination</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Her teeth are as white as the meat of an apple,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her lips are like dark ripe plums.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I love her.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her hair is a midnight mass, a dusky aurora.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I love her.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And because her skin is the brown of an oak leaf in autumn, but a softer color,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I want to kiss her.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poem-we-have-tomorrow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Poem</h2>
				<p hidden="hidden" epub:type="subtitle">We Have Tomorrow</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>We have tomorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bright before us</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a flame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yesterday, a night-gone thing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A sun-down name.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And dawn-today</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Broad arch above the road we came.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">We march.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mammy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mammy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I'm waiting for ma mammy,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She is Death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Say it very softly.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say it very slowly if you choose.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I'm waiting for ma mammy,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Death.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dream-variation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dream Variation</h2>
			<p>
				<span>To fling my arms wide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In some place of the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To whirl and to dance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the white day is done.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then rest at cool evening</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath a tall tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While night comes on gently,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Dark like me,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That is my dream!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To fling my arms wide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the face of the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dance! whirl! whirl!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the quick day is done.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rest at pale evening. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A tall, slim tree. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Night coming tenderly</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Black like me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="afraid" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Afraid</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We cry among the skyscrapers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As our ancestors</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cried among the palms in Africa</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because we are alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we're afraid.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="subway-face" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Subway Face</h2>
			<p>
				<span>That I have been looking</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For you all my life</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Does not matter to you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You do not know.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You never knew.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor did I.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now you take the Harlem train uptown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I take a local down.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-song-to-a-negro-wash-woman" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Song to a Negro Wash-Woman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, wash-woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Arms elbow-deep in white suds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soul washed clean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clothes washed clean,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have many songs to sing you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Could I but find the words.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Was it four o'clock or six o'clock on a winter afternoon, I saw you wringing out the last shirt in Miss White Lady's kitchen? Was it four o'clock or six o'clock? I don't remember.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But I know, at seven one spring morning you were on Vermont Street with a bundle in your arms going to wash clothes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I know I've seen you in a New York subway train in the late afternoon coming home from washing clothes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yes, I know you, wash-woman.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know how you send your children to school, and high-school, and even college.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know how you work and help your man when times are hard.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know how you build your house up from the wash-tub and call it home.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And how you raise your churches from white suds for the service of the Holy God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I've seen you singing, wash-woman. Out in the backyard garden under the apple trees, singing, hanging white clothes on long lines in the sun-shine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I've seen you in church a Sunday morning singing, praising your Jesus, because some day you're going to sit on the right hand of the Son of God and forget you ever were a wash-woman. And the aching back and the bundles of clothes will be unremembered then.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes, I've seen you singing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And for you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">O singing wash-woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">For you, singing little brown woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Singing strong black woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Singing tall yellow woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Arms deep in white suds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Soul clean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Clothes clean,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">For you I have many songs to make</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Could I but find the words.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-poppy-flower" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Poppy Flower</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A wild poppy-flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Withered and died.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The day-people laughed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the night-people cried.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A wild poppy-flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Withered and died.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="troubled-woman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Troubled Woman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>She stands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the quiet darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This troubled woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bowed by</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weariness and pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like an</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Autumn flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the frozen rain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wind-blown autumn flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That never lifts its head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Again.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="johannesburg-mines" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Johannesburg Mines</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In the Johannesburg Mines</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There are 240,000</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Native Africans working.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What kind of poem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Make out of that?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>240,000 natives</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Working in the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Johannesburg mines.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-certain-intellectuals" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Certain Intellectuals</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You are no friend of mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I am poor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Black,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ignorant and slow,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not your kind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You yourself</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have told me so,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No friend of mine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="steel-mills" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Steel Mills</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The mills</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That grind and grind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That grind out new steel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And grind away the lives</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of men,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the sunset</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their stacks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are great black silhouettes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against the sky.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the dawn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They belch red fire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mills,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grinding out new steel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old men.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="negro-dancer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Negro Dancer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>"Me an' ma baby's</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Got two mo' ways,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two mo' ways to do de buck!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Da, da,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Da, da, da!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two mo' ways to do de buck!"</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Soft light on the tables,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Music gay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brown-skin steppers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a cabaret.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>White folks, laugh!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>White folks, pray!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Me an' ma baby's</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Got two mo' ways,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two mo' ways to do de buck!"</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="liars" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Liars</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It is we who are liars:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Pretenders-to-be who are not</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Pretenders-not-to-be who are.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is we who use words</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As screens for thoughts</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And weave dark garments</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To cover the naked body</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the too white Truth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is we with the civilized souls</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who are liars.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sea-charm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sea Charm</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sea charm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sea's own children</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do not understand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But that the sea is strong</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like God's hand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But that sea wind is sweet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like God's breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that the sea holds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A wide, deep death.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dream-keeper" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dream Keeper</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Bring me all of your dreams,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You dreamers.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bring me all of your</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Heart melodies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I may wrap them</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a blue cloud-cloth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Away from the too rough fingers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the world.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="song-lovely-dark-and-lonely-one" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Song</h2>
				<p hidden="hidden" epub:type="subtitle">Lovely, Dark, and Lonely One</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Lovely, dark, and lonely one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bare your bosom to the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do not be afraid of light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You who are a child of night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Open wide your arms to life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whirl in the wind of pain and strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Face the wall with the dark closed gate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beat with bare, brown fists</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wait.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poem-being-walkers-with-the-dawn-and-morning" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Poem</h2>
				<p hidden="hidden" epub:type="subtitle">Being Walkers with the Dawn and Morning</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Being walkers with the dawn and morning</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Walkers with the sun and morning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We are not afraid of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor days of gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Being walkers with the sun and morning.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="an-earth-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">An Earth Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It's an earth song,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I've been waiting long for an earth song.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It's a spring song,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I've been waiting long for a spring song.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strong as the shoots of a new plant</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strong as the bursting of new buds</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strong as the coming of the first child from its mother's womb.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It's an earth song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A body song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A spring song,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have been waiting long for this spring song.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="i-too" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">I Too</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I, too, sing America.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I am the darker brother.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They send me to eat in the kitchen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When company comes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I laugh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And eat well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And grow strong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tomorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll sit at the table</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When company comes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nobody'll dare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Eat in the kitchen,"</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Besides,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They'll see how beautiful I am</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And be ashamed,—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I, too, am America.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="drama-for-winter-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Drama for Winter Night</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(Fifth Avenue)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>You can't sleep here,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My good man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can't sleep here.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is the house of God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The usher opens the church door and he goes out.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You can't sleep in this car, old top,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not here.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If Jones found you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He'd give you to the cops.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Get-the-hell out now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This ain't home.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can't stay here.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The chauffeur opens the door and he gets out.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lord! You can't let a man lie in the streets like this.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Find an officer quick.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Send for an ambulance.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Maybe he is sick but</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He can't die on this corner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not here!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He can't die here.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Death opens a door.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lemme git by St. Peter.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lemme sit down on the steps of your throne.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lemme rest somewhere.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What did yuh say, God?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What did yuh say?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can't sleep here. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bums can't stay. . . .</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The man's raving.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Get him to the hospital quick.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He's attracting a crowd.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He can't die on this corner.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No, no, not here.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="god-to-hungry-child" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">God to Hungry Child</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Hungry child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I didn't make this world for you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You didn't buy any stock in my railroad.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You didn't invest in my corporation.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where are your shares in standard oil?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I made the world for the rich</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the will-be-rich</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the have-always-been-rich.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not for you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hungry child.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poem-to-a-dead-soldier" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Poem to a Dead Soldier</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>"Death is a whore who consorts with all men."</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Ice-cold passion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a bitter breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Adorned the bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Youth and Death—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Youth, the young soldier</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who went to the wars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And embraced white Death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The vilest of whores.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now we spread roses</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over your tomb—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We who sent you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To your doom.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now we make soft speeches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sob soft cries</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And throw soft flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And utter soft lies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We mould you in metal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And carve you in stone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not daring make statue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of your dead flesh and bone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not daring to mention</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bitter breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor the ice-cold passion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of your love-night with Death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We make soft speeches.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We sob soft cries</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We throw soft flowers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And utter soft lies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you who were young</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When you went to the wars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have lost your youth now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the vilest of whores.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="park-benching" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Park Benching</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I've sat on the park benches in Paris</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hungry.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve sat on the park benches in New York</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hungry.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I’ve said:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I want a job.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I want work.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I’ve been told:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There are no jobs.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is no work.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So I’ve sat on the park benches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hungry.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mid-winter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hungry days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No jobs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No work.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="rising-waters" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Rising Waters</h2>
			<p>
				<span>To you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who are the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Foam on the sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And not the sea—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What of the jagged rocks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the waves themselves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the force of the mounting waters?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You are</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But foam on the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You rich ones—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not the sea.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-weary-blues" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Weary Blues</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Droning a drowsy syncopated tune,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rocking back and forth to a mellow croon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">I heard a Negro play.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down on Lenox Avenue the other night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the pale dull pallor of an old gas light</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">He did a lazy sway. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">He did a lazy sway. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the tune o' those Weary Blues.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With his ebony hands on each ivory key</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He made that poor piano moan with melody.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O Blues!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swaying to and fro on his rickety stool</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He played that sad raggy tune like a musical fool.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Sweet Blues!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Coming from a black man's soul.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O Blues!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a deep song voice with a melancholy tone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I heard that Negro sing, that old piano moan—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">"Ain't got nobody in all this world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Ain't got nobody but ma self.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">I's gwine to quit ma frownin'</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And put ma troubles on the shelf."</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thump, thump, thump, went his foot on the floor.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He played a few chords then he sang some more—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">"I got the Weary Blues</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And I can't be satisfied.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Got the Weary Blues</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And can't be satisfied—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">I ain't happy no mo'</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And I wish that I had died."</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And far into the night he crooned that tune.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The stars went out and so did the moon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The singer stopped playing and went to bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the Weary Blues echoed through his head.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He slept like a rock or a man that's dead.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="prayer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Prayer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I ask you this:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which way to go?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I ask you this:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which sin to bear?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which crown to put</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon my hair?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I do not know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lord God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I do not know.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poem-to-f-s" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Poem</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">To <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">F. S.</abbr></p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>I loved my friend.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He went away from me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There's nothing more to say.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The poem ends,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soft as it began,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I loved my friend.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="america" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">America</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Little dark baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Little Jew baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Little outcast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America is seeking the stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America is seeking tomorrow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You are America.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am America</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America—the dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America—the vision.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America—the star-seeking I.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of yesterday</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The chains of slavery;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of yesterday,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ghettos of Europe;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of yesterday,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The poverty and pain of the old, old world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The building and struggle of this new one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We come</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You and I,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seeking the stars.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You and I,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You of the blue eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the blond hair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I of the dark eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the crinkly hair.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You and I</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Offering hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Being brothers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Being one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Being America.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You and I.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who am I?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You know me:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am Crispus Attucks at the Boston Tea Party;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jimmy Jones in the ranks of the last black troops marching for democracy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am Sojourner Truth preaching and praying for the goodness of this wide, wide land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Today's black mother bearing tomorrow's America.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who am I?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You know me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dream of my dreams,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am America.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am America seeking the stars.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hoping, praying</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fighting, dreaming.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knowing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There are stains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the beauty of my democracy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I want to be clean.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I want to grovel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No longer in the mire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I want to reach always</span>
				<br/>
				<span>After stars.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who am I?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am the ghetto child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am the dark baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the blond tomorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am my one sole self,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America seeking the stars.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-certain-brothers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Certain “Brothers”</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You sicken me with lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With truthful lies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with your pious faces,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And your wide, out-stretched, mock-welcome, Christian hands.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While underneath</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is dirt and ugliness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rottening hearts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wild hyenas howling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In your soul's waste lands.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="suicides-note" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Suicide’s Note</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The calm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cool face of the river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Asked me for a kiss.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fantasy-in-purple" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fantasy in Purple</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Beat the drums of tragedy for me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beat the drums of tragedy and death.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let the choir sing a stormy song</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To drown the rattle of my dying breath.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Beat the drums of tragedy for me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let the white violins whir thin and slow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But blow one blaring trumpet note of sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="line-break">
					<span>To go with me</span>
					<span class="line-break">
						<span>to the darkness</span>
						<span>where I go.</span>
					</span>
				</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-midnight-nan-at-leroys" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Midnight Nan at Leroy’s</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Strut and wiggle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shameless gal.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wouldn't no good fellow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be your pal.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hear dat music. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jungle night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hear dat music. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the moon was white.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sing your Blues song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pretty baby.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You want lovin'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you don't mean maybe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Jungle lover. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Night black boy. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two against the moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the moon was joy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Strut and wiggle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shameless Nan.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wouldn't no good fellow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be your man.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="young-bride" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Young Bridge</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They say she died,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Although I do not know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They say she died of grief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the earth-dark arms of Death</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sought calm relief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rest from pain of love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In loveless sleep.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-jester" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Jester</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In one hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I hold tragedy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the other</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Comedy,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Masks for the soul.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laugh with me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You would laugh!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weep with me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You would weep!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tears are my laughter.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laughter is my pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cry at my grinning mouth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you will.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laugh at my sorrow's reign.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am the Black Jester,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dumb clown of the world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The booted, booted fool of silly men.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Once I was wise.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall I be wise again?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="soledad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Soledad</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">A Cuban Portrait</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>The shadows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of too many nights of love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have fallen beneath your eyes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So full of pain and passion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So full of lies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So full of pain and passion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soledad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So deeply scarred,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So still with silent cries.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poem-to-the-black-beloved" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Poem</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">To the Black Beloved</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Ah,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My black one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art not beautiful</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet thou hast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A loveliness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surpassing beauty.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My black one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art not good</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet thou hast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A purity</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surpassing goodness.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My black one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art not luminous</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet an altar of jewels,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An altar of shimmering jewels,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would pale in the light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of thy darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pale in the light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of thy nightness.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="cross" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Cross</h2>
			<p>
				<span>My old man's a white old man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my old mother's black.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If ever I cursed my white old man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I take my curses back.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If ever I cursed my black old mother</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wished she were in hell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'm sorry for that evil wish</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now I wish her well.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My old man died in a fine big house.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My ma died in a shack.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wonder where I'm gonna die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Being neither white nor black?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="summer-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Summer Night</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The sounds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the Harlem night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drop one by one into stillness.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The last player-piano is closed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The last victrola ceases with the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Jazz Boy Blues."</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The last crying baby sleeps</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the night becomes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still as a whispering heartbeat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I toss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without rest in the darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weary as the tired night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Empty as the silence,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Empty with a vague,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Aching emptiness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Desiring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Needing someone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Something.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I toss without rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the darkness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until the new dawn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wan and pale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Descends like a white mist</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the court-yard.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="disillusion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Disillusion</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I would be simple again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Simple and clean</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor ever know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dark Harlem,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wild laughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of your mirth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor the salt tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of your pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be kind to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, great dark city.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let me forget.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will not come</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To you again.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="disillusion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Disillusion</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I would be simple again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Simple and clean</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor ever know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dark Harlem,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wild laughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of your mirth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor the salt tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of your pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be kind to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, great dark city.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let me forget.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will not come</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To you again.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="jazz-band-in-a-parisian-cabaret" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Jazz Band in a Parisian Cabaret</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Play that thing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jazz band!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Play it for the lords and ladies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the dukes and counts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the whores and gigolos,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the American millionaires,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the school teachers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out for a spree.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Play it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jazz band!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You know that tune</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That laughs and cries at the same time.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You know it</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May I?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mais oui.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mien Gott!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Parece una rumba.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Play it, jazz band!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You've got seven languages to speak in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then some,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even if you do come from Georgia.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Can I go home wid yuh, sweetie?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sure.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="minstrel-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Minstrel Man</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Because my mouth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is wide with laughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my throat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is deep with song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You do not think</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I suffer after</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have held my pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So long.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Because my mouth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is wide with laughter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You do not hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My inner cry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because my feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are gay with dancing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You do not know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I die.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="nude-young-dancer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Nude Young Dancer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>What jungle tree have you slept under,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Midnight dancer of the jazzy hour?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What great forest has hung its perfume</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a sweet veil about your bower?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What jungle tree have you slept under,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Night-dark girl of the swaying hips?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What star-white moon has been your mother?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To what clean boy have you offered your lips?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="songs-to-the-dark-virgin" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Songs to the Dark Virgin</h2>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Would</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I were a jewel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A shattered jewel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That all my shining brilliants</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might fall at thy feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou dark one.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Would</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I were a garment,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A shimmering, silken garment,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That all my folds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might wrap about thy body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Absorb thy body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hold and hide thy body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou dark one.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Would</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I were a flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But one sharp, leaping flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To annihilate thy body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou dark one.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="young-sailor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Young Sailor</h2>
			<p>
				<span>One who sings "chansons vulgaires"</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a Harlem cellar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the jazz-band plays</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From dark to dawn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would not understand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Should you tell her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That she is like a nymph</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For some wild faun.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="joy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Joy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I went to look for Joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Slim, dancing Joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gay, laughing Joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bright-eyed Joy,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I found her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Driving the butcher's cart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the arms of the butcher boy!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such company, such company,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As keeps this young nymph, Joy!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="strange-hurt-she-knew" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Strange Hurt She Knew</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In times of stormy weather</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She felt queer pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“You'll find rain better</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than shelter from the rain.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Days filled with fiery sunshine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strange hurt she knew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That made</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her seek the burning sunlight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rather than the shade.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In months of snowy winter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When cozy houses hold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She'd break</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down doors to wander</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Naked through the cold.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="star-seeker" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Star Seeker</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I have been a seeker</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seeking a flaming star,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the flame-white star</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has burned my hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even from afar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Walking in a dream-dead world</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Circled by iron bars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I sought a singing star's</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wild beauty.—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now behold my scars.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lullaby" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lullaby</h2>
			<p>
				<span>My little dark baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My little earth-thing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My little love-one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What shall I sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For your lullaby?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A necklace of stars</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Winding the night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My little black baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My dark body's baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What shall I sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For your lullaby?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Great diamond moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Kissing the night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, little dark baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Night black baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Stars, stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Night stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For your sleep-song lullaby.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="salome" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Salome</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is no sweetness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the kiss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of a mouth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unwarm and dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And even passion's</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flaming bliss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Turns ashen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a charnel bed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Salome</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the wine-red lips,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What would you with death's head?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-ring" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Ring</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Love is the master of the ring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And life a circus tent.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What is this silly song you sing?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love is the master of the ring.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I am afraid!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Afraid of Love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And of Love's bitter whip!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Afraid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Afraid of Love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Love's sharp, stinging whip.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What is this silly song you sing?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love is the master of the ring.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="midwinter-blues" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Midwinter Blues</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In de middle of de winter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Snow all over de ground.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In de middle of de winter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Snow all over de ground,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Twas de night befo' Christmas</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ma good man turned me down.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Don' know's I'd mind his goin'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he left me when de coal was low.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don’ know's I'd mind his goin'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he left when de coal was low.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now, if a man loves a woman</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That ain't no time to go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He told me that he loved me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he must a been tellin' a lie.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He told me that he loved me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He must a been tellin' a lie.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he's the only man I'll</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love till de day I die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I'm gonna buy me a rose bud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' plant it at ma back door.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gonna buy me a rose bud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And plant it at ma back door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So when I'm dead they</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Won't need no flowers from de store.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gypsy-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Gypsy Man</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ma man's a gypsy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cause he never does come home.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ma man's a gypsy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He never does come home.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'm gonna be a gypsy woman</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fer I can't stay here alone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Once I was in Memphis,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I mean Tennessee.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Once I was in Memphis,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said Tennessee.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I had to leave cause</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nobody there was good to me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I met a yellow papa,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He took ma last thin dime.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Met a yellow papa,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He took ma last thin dime.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I give it to him cause I loved him</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I'll have mo' sense 'next time.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Love, Oh, love is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such a strange disease.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love, Oh, love is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such a strange disease.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When it hurts yo' heart you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sho can't find no ease.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
